Procedure to deprecate old versions of software (#20767)
LLNL/spack: lib/spack/docs/packaging_guide.rst

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

There are many reasons to remove old versions of software:

#. Security vulnerabilities (most serious reason)
#. Changing build systems that increase package complexity
#. Changing dependencies/patches/resources/flags that increase package complexity
#. Maintainer/developer inability/unwillingness to support old versions
#. No longer available for download (right to be forgotten)
#. Package or version rename

At the same time, there are many reasons to keep old versions of software:

#. Reproducibility
#. Requirements for older packages (e.g. some packages still rely on Qt 3)

In general, you should not remove old versions from a ``package.py``. Instead,
you should first deprecate them using the following syntax:

.. code-block:: python

   version('1.2.3', sha256='...', deprecated=True)

This has two effects. First, ``spack info`` will no longer advertise that
version. Second, commands like ``spack install`` that fetch the package will
require user approval::

   ==> Warning: This version is deprecated and may be removed in a future Spack release.
   ==>   Fetch anyway? [y/N]

If you use ``spack install --deprecated``, this check can be skipped.

> Version deprecations should last at least one full release cycle before the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Version deprecations should always last at least one Spack minor release cycle, and there must always be a deprecated version provided before any previous version is completely removed. This means that if a deprecation is added to Spack 0.16.0, the package version can only be fully removed or unsupported in Spack 0.16.1. No version can be removed without such a deprecation process.
```

I wasn't sure:
1. whether the release cycle referred to was Spack's, or the package's.
1. whether the release cycle was a major or minor release cycle.
1. whether there are any exceptions.

Reviewer: I REALLY REALLY like the pants policy on this: https://www.pantsbuild.org/docs/deprecation-policy. It also explicitly separates a deprecation policy for *pants options* (does spack have such a policy?) from the policy we require from plugin authors (equivalent to `package.py` maintainers):

> Plugin API deprecation policy
>
> When writing plugins, Pants is used as a library, rather than a binary. That is, you import Pants code to write plugins. We try to make this API stable for your plugins.

Author: If a deprecation is added in 0.16.0, I think we want to wait until after 0.17.0 to remove it. Users expect patch releases to only contain bug fixes, no functionality or hash changes. Other than that, I like your clarification.

Reviewer: Mixed up semver there! Thanks.
